Frostbite Bailey's (TM)
ARCTIC ARCHITECT'S HANDBOOK

Activision (R)


The object of the game is to help Frostbite Bailey (TM) build igloos by jumping on floating blocks of ice. Be careful to avoid these deadly hazards: clams, snowgeese, Alaskan king crab, grizzly polar bears, and the rapidly dropping temperature.


FROSTBITE (TM) BASICS

1. Insert game cartridge into your video game console with power OFF. Then, turn power ON.

2. Plug in Joystick Controller/s.  Solo player uses left Joystick.

3. The difficulty switches are not used.

4. Select game with game select switch.

Game 1 - Regular
Game 2 - Regular, Two Players
Game 3 - Advanced
Game 4 - Advanced, Two Players

Regular games start at level 1. Advanced games start at level 5.

5. The Joystick Controller is held with the red button in the upper left position.

* To move Frostbite Bailey left or right, move Joystick left or right.

* He'll move up when you push the Joystick forward, and move down when you pull it back.

* To reverse the direction of the ice floe [sic] you are standing on, press the red button. But remember, each time you do, your igloo will lose a block, unless its completely built.

6. To begin a new game, press the game reset. The ice will start to move and Frostbite can start jumping.

7. Reserves.  You begin the game with one active Frostbite Bailey (TM) and three on reserve. With each increase of 5,000 points, a bonus Frostbite is added to your reserves (up to a maximum of nine).

8. Frostbite gets lost each time he falls into the Arctic Sea, gets chased away by a Polar Grizzly, or gets caught outside when the temperature drops to zero.

{Picture of the game; TODO caption image}


IGLOO CONSTRUCTION

Building Codes.  Each time Frostbite Bailey (TM) jumps onto a white ice floe, a "block" is added to the igloo. Once jumped upon, the white ice turns blue. It can still be jumped on, but it won't add points to your score or blocks to your igloo. When all four rows are, they turn white again. The igloo is complete when the door appears. Frostbite may then jump into it.

Work Hazards.  Avoid contact with Alaskan King Crabs, snow geese, and killer clams, as they will push Frostbite Bailey into the fatal Arctic Sea. The Polar Grizzlies come out of hibernation at level 4 and, upon contact, will chase Frostbite right off-screen (note: actually left off-screen).

No Overtime Allowed. Frostbite always starts working when it's 45 outside. You'll notive this steadily falling temeprature at the upper left corner of the screen. Frostbite must build and enter the igloo before the temperature drops to 0, or else he'll turn into blue ice!

SPECIAL FEATURES OF FROSTBITE

Fresh Fish swim by regularly. They are Frostbite's only food, and, as such, are also additives to your score. Catch 'em if you can.

Night and Day.  Frostbite works the day shift and the night shift. He must build four igloos per shift.

A Magic Fish will appear near your score when you've racked up a certain high number of points. Watch for it!


SCORING

                                                         Points For
Level                   Points per Iceblock            Entering Igloo
---------------------------------------------------------------------
  1                              10                          160
  2                              20                          320
  3                              30                          480
  4                              40                          640
  5                              50                          800
  6                              60                          960
  7                              70                         1120
  8                              80                         1280
  9                              90                         1440

Scoring remains constant after the ninth level.

* Fish are worth 200 points each.

* Also, each degree remaining when Frostbite Bailey (TM) enters his igloo will add points to your score as follows:

                     10 * Degree * Level Number #


JOIN THE "ARCTIC ARCHITECTS"

Getting into any builder's association requires paying your dues. Score 40,000 points or more, and we'll figure you paid yours. If you find the magic fish, we'll be really impressed! Send us a photo of the TV screen showing your qualifying your score, along with your address, and we'll send you the official Arctic Architects emblem.  Be sure to write the name "Frostbite" and your score on the bottom corner of the envelope. {Picture of the Emblem; TODO caption image}


LIFE AT THE TOP OF THE WORLD

The Arctic probably ranks as the area least chosen by homebuyers, and most of us know little, if anything, about this amazing land. Yet, the Arctic has been home to some of the happiest and healthiest members of humankind for thousands of years--the Eskimos!

Traditional Eskimos believe that nature's gift belong to everyone. There is no private property except for tools and clothes. Everything else is shared--not only with community members, but with any stranger that travels by!

It is only while traveling that Eskimos live in their famous snow houses. All houses are called "igloos" whether they are made of wood, fur, mud, or snow. The snow variety can be built in about one hour. Here's how:

A knife with a long, wife blade is used to cut snow into blocks measuring 36" x 18" x 6". These are piled in a continuous spiral. The entrance is a tunnel under the snow or, when the ground is frozen, a long hall, above-ground. This keeps out the cold wind, and keeps the warm air inside. A hole is made in the roof for ventilation. There are fascinating things to learn from our Arctic sisters and brothers. Find out more at your library.


HOW TO BECOME AN ARCTIC ARCHITECT

Tips from Steve Cartwright, designer of Frostbite (TM)

/Steve Cartwright is an Activision senior designer. His prolific talents have already brought you Barnstorming (TM), Megamania (TM), Seaquest (TM), and Plaque Attack (TM). Aside from video games, Steve enjoys motorcycle touring and photography.

"Here are my favorite tips for high scoring:

"Learn to use the red button sparingly. The best time to use it is to 'fake out' the bear by drawing him to the middle of the screen and quickly changing direction.

"Don't be greedy with the fish.  Get them if they come by. However, going out of your way often uses too much time.

"Another thing: You can move Frostbite Bailey in mid-air and, at the higher levels, you can really hook him around. Check out just how far he'll go.

"Notice that hazards only get you when both feet are planted. Therefore, it's possible to jump 'around' hazards since they can't hurt you in mid-air.

"Now here's a secret tip I've decided to share: If you jump up onto the extreme left of the shore, the bear can't get you. It's Frostbite's emergency hide-out.

"Now that you know the inside scoop, I'm expecting some really high scores. But don't stay on the ice too long: You can't write when your hands are cold. And, at the very least, I'm expecting a postcard."

Steve Cartwright
{signature with picture of him huddling for warmth in his parka; TODO caption image}


Let us get to know you!  If you have questions or comments about our games or clubs, or want to be added to our mailing list, drop us a note or call the "Game Hotline" toll-free at 800-633-GAME. In California, please call 415-940-6044/5. 

Activision, Inc., Drawer No. 7287, Mountain View, CA 94039

Atari (R), 2600 (TM), and Video Computer System (TM) are trademarks 
of ATARI, Inc.

(C) 1983 Activision (R)  AX-031-03  Printed in the U.S.A.



