A L I E N
20th Century Fox
Games of the Century
{Figure1}
"In space no one can hear you scream"
Game Instructions
Fox Video Games


A L I E N

TO SET UP: Set up your video computer system and left joystick controller as instructed in your manufacturer owner's manual.  Move the Color/B-W lever to the correct setting.  Turn the power OFF and insert the Alien game cartridge.


{Figure2}


TO BEGIN: Turn the power ON.  Use the Game Select lever and Difficulty Switches to choose a play level. Press the Game Reset lever and get ready to run for your life.

THE OBJECTIVE: Your job is to run through the hallways of your space ship and crush all the Alien Eggs which have been placed there. You must also avoid or destroy the adult Aliens and snatch up as many prizes as possible.

THE CONTROLS: Tilt the joystick forward, backward, left and right to maneuver through the hallways. To smash Eggs, simply run over them. You may travel off one side of the maze and back into the other using the "Hyperwarp Passage."  Each Human is equipped with a Flame Thrower that is activated by the joystick button (see below).

SCREEN DISPLAY: The Play Level and Humans allowed per Play Level are displayed in the bottom left corner of the screen when Alien is not in play. During the game, the current score and Humans remaining are shown there.

LEVELS OF PLAY/DIFFICULTY SWITCHES/BONUS ROUNDS: Each game of Alien lasts until you run out of Humans. If you can clear all of the Eggs out of a playing screen, you get the chance to earn extra points in a "Bonus Round" and then are returned to a new and more difficult playing screen. All points and Humans remaining are carried over to the new screens.

Bonus Rounds: The object of the Bonus Round is to travel STRAIGHT UP to the top of the screen and grab the prize shown there. You have only eight seconds to do so.  You do not lose a human if you fail, but you earn the point value of the prize if you succeed.

Left Difficulty Switch A: Aliens travel in random order about the screen.

Left Difficulty Switch B: Aliend travel in fixed patterns about the screen.

Right Difficult Switch B: Capturing a Pulsar has standard effect on the Aliens.

Right Difficulty Switch A: Capturing a Pulsar has no effect on the Aliens.


{Figure3}


LEVEL 1 - NORMAL GAME PLAY: You begin with three Humans and receive a bonus Human after successfully clearing the second screen.  Prizes appear in chart order.

LEVEL 2 - ADVANCED GAME PLAY: You begin with two Humans and receive no bonus Humans.  Prizes appear in chart order.

LEVEL 3 - FOR EXPERTS ONLY: You begin with three Humans and receive no bonus Human after clearing the first screen.  All Prizes in Level 3 are Saturns.

LEVEL 4 - EASY PRACTICE GAME: You begin with six Humans and receive 1 bonus Human after clearing the first sceen.  All Prizes in Level 4 are also Saturns.

OBJECTS/SCORING: Each time an Alien catches you, one Human is lost. You score points for smashing Eggs and frying Aliens with the aid of your Flame Thrower or Pulsar. In addition, you can gain points for picking up Prizes. Be sure to record your high scores on the back of this booklet!

{Figure4}

FLAME THROWER - 1 PER HUMAN: A spurt of flam from this contraption cause Aliens to turn away from you or become immobilized for a short period of time.  Use the Throwers carefully. Each has only four secons of flame and the Thrower will not operate in the extreme left or right areas of the screen. You can also use the Flame Thrower to run over a Pulsar without picking it up, allowing you to save the Pulsar to use at a later time.

PULSARS - 3 PER MAZE: Capturing a Pulsar causes the Aliens to weaken and turn blue. Then, for a short period of time, you can destroy them by running over and touching them. The instant the Aliens return to their original color, however, they once again become deadly.

PRIZES - 2 PER MAZE: Prizes appear in all levels of play and in the Bonus Rounds.

POINT CHART:

OBJECT                  POINTS   PRIZES          POINTS
Eggs                    10       Rocket          500
Pulsar                  100      Saturn          1,000
1st Alien               500      Star Ship       2,000
2nd Alien               1,000    1st Surprise    2,000-3,000
3rd Alien               2,000    2nd Surprise    3,000
Completed Screen        1        3rd Surprise    5,000


HINTS FROM DALLAS NORTH...
A good playing strategy is to crush all of the Eggs in one area at a time, keeping within easy readh of a Pulsar. The best way to destroy Aliens is to sit near a Pulsar until the Aliens are almost upon you. Then grab that Pulsar and go get 'em !

Use the Hyperwarp Passage to ditch Aliens. Many times they won't follow you in.

If you're having trouble with the Bonus Rounds, try going between the Alien pairs rather than around them.

SUPER SMASHERS (a place to enter your high scores)
Name                            Level           Score

